Project Desc & User Groups for PDF Report (#67)
speaking-portal-project-team-a/The-Speaking-Portal-Project: docs/reports/requirements/1_proj-desc.md

## PDF Report

### High-level Description

The objective for the Speaking Portal Project is to design, develop, and deploy a lip-sync animation (LSA) API for the

> Kukarella text-to-speech (TTS) web application. This API will serve as an animation generating add-on for

Reviewer: I like this a lot more

this system so that the user can both listen to and watch their avatar speak the user-provided text.

### User groups

In this project, there are two main user groups who will be using the software: users and developers. The users are the
general public who use the Kukarella web application; this could be anyone who would like to have a more immersive
text-to-speech experience where an animated avatar reads user text aloud. The developers are the Kukarella employees
who will be responsible for incorporating the API into their current system and adding more customizable assets for the

> avatars in the future.

Reviewer: this section flows nicely

> In the current Kukarella TTS web application, the first step is for the user to create one or more actors.

Reviewer: This describes the table reads system still, but its a generally good description so it might not need to be changed

Author: I think I'll keep it because it does say, "one or more actors" which applies to both the general Kukarella app and the Table Reads, so I think it encompasses all "apps" within the product

who will be responsible for incorporating the API into their current system and adding more customizable assets for the
avatars in the future.

In the current Kukarella TTS web application, the first step is for the user to create one or more actors.
The user gives the actor a name, selects a voice from a list of voices they can preview, selects a language from the
list of approximately 150 languages, and selects or uploads an image of the actor. After creating the actor and
entering the text they want to listen to, the user presses the play button, and then waits for the application to
process and generate the audio.

Once our API is incorporated into this system, the enhanced experience of being able to both listen and watch the
avatar speak will only be available with specific avatars. After pressing the play button, the user will wait for the
Kukarella application and the API to process and generate a video of their avatar speaking the text with lips
synchronized to the sounds produced in its speech.

As for the developers, they will need to call the API within the Kukarella application. After receiving the user input

> and after the text is converted to speech in an audio file, the developer will call our API. When calling our API, the

Reviewer 2: The sentence that starts with "When.... " sounds a bit wordy.

Maybe could be split into two sentences ? 

".... wil be passed in as inputs. Then the API... "   <- This could be how you could split it. I am not sure if that flows better, but it could avoid a run-on

Author: It does seem pretty long, so thank you for suggesting to split it up! Will do.

## PDF Report

> ### High-level Description (about one paragraph)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### High-level Description
```
Is the "about one paragraph" portion meant to remain in the final PDF report?

Author: I put it there to remind myself, but we don't want to keep it in the final report! Good catch!

The objective for the Speaking Portal Project is to design, develop, and deploy a lip-sync animation (LSA) API for the

> Kukarella Table Reads text-to-speech (TTS) web application. This API will serve as an animation generating add-on for

Reviewer: Maybe I'm misunderstanding, but I believe it's not necessarily meant to be a part of the table reads system, but rather its own kukarella plugin

Author: Ah, I think I remember Nazim showing us the Table Reads as an example, but I think you're right that it would be a possible thing just in general. I'll fix this

this system so that the user can both listen to and watch their avatar speak the user-provided text.

### User groups

In this project, there are two main user groups who will be using the software: general users and developers. The

> general users are the general public who use the Kukarella web application; this could be anyone who would like to

Reviewer 3: Bit of a nitpick, but the _general_ users who are the _general_ public feels redundant

> general users are the general public who use the Kukarella web application; this could be anyone who would like to

Reviewer: It feels like a little too much of the use general in that first lil section, could maybe use a little rephrasing

Author: Good catch, thanks! I'll adjust

> listen to rather than read some text in any language with a customized avatar. The developers are the Kukarella

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
have a more immersive text-to-speech experience where an animated avatar that reads aloud user text.
```

Sentence made need some re-word. I added a suggestion, but I think something else could be better too

> listen to rather than read some text in any language with a customized avatar. The developers are the Kukarella
> employees who will be responsible for incorporating the API into their current system and adding more customizable

Reviewer: This is not necessary at all just a lil simpler put:
```suggestion
listen to rather than read some text in any language with a customized avatar. The developers are the Kukarella
employees responsible system maintenance and the addition of more customizable
```

assets for the avatars in the future.

> In the current Kukarella Table Reads TTS web application, the first step is for the user to create one or more actors.

Reviewer: see my first comment, I know they mentioned the table read plugin, but I thought they were using that more as an example of what plugins already exist

Author: I'll adjust, thanks!

The user gives the actor a name, selects a voice from a list of voices they can preview, selects a language from the
list of approximately 150 languages, and selects or uploads an image of the actor. After creating the actor and
entering the text they want to listen to, the user presses the play button, and then waits for the application to

> process and generate the audio, which is then auto-played once the audio is complete.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
process and generate the audio.
```

Might want to remove to avoid a run-on

Once our API is incorporated into this system, if the user would like to both watch and listen to their avatar speak

> the provided text, the only difference in the user interface is that the user will select one of the "premium" avatar

Reviewer: Do we know this will be the only difference at this step, since we aren't handling any UI we might not need to mention this

Author: I think we need to say *something* because our app doesn't work for uploaded images

images for their actor. After pressing the play button, the user will wait for the Kukarella application and the API to

> process and generate a video of their avatar speaking the text with lips synchronized to the sounds produced in their

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
process and generate a video of their avatar speaking the text with lips synchronized to the sounds produced from their text-to-speech API ```

> generated speech.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: I made adjustments to clarify this section, thanks!

As for the developers, they will need to call the API within the Kukarella application. After receiving the user input

> and after the text is converted to speech in an audio file, the developer will call our API instead of providing the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and after the text is converted to speech in an audio file, the developer will call our API.
```

> and after the text is converted to speech in an audio file, the developer will call our API instead of providing the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and after the text is converted to speech in an audio file, the developer will call our API.
```
I think the next bit would not be needed. Might sound smoother without.

> audio file as output for the user to listen to. When calling our API, the user-selected language, user-provided text,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When calling our API, the user-selected language, user-provided text,
```
This change  will be required if changes are made in the above suggestion. Otherwise ignore.

Author: Removed, and will show next copy soon! Thanks for making it smoother!

> and the Kukarella-generated audio will be passed in, and then the API will provide the animated video as output. At

Reviewer: Don't forget about the selected avatar!

Author: Good catch! I'll add it in.

> this point, the Kukarella developer shows the video in the web application's user interface.

Reviewer: I believe there is also an option to download

Author: Good catch! I'll add that in

entering the text they want to listen to, the user presses the play button, and then waits for the application to
process and generate the audio.

Once our API is incorporated into this system, the enhanced experience of being able to both listen and watch the
avatar speak will only be available with specific avatars. After pressing the play button, the user will wait for the
Kukarella application and the API to process and generate a video of their avatar speaking the text with lips
synchronized to the sounds produced in its speech.

As for the developers, they will need to call the API within the Kukarella application. After receiving the user input
and after the text is converted to speech in an audio file, the developer will call our API. When calling our API, the
user-selected actor image, the user-selected language, the user-provided text, and the Kukarella-generated audio will
be passed in, and then the API will provide the animated video as output. At this point, the Kukarella developer shows
the video in the web application's user interface and provides the option to download the video file.

> When Kukarella decides to add more "premium" avatars, the developer will need to include the head, mouth, eye, and

Reviewer 3: Premium needs to be changed to select

> When Kukarella decides to add more "premium" avatars, the developer will need to include the head, mouth, eye, and

Reviewer 3: Change premium to select

Author: Good catch!! I forgot to adjust the last paragraph!
